DIFFERENCE BETWEEN WINDOW, DOCUMENT AND SCREEN IN JAVASCRIPT
 
 Window object and document object often look alike and confusing??

 A clear understanding of Browser object Model (BOM) and Document object model (DOM) resolves the problem.

 BROWSER OBJECT MODEL (BOM):

             The browser object model contains objects that represent the current browser window or tab.
The top most object in the BOM is the WINDOW object representing the window or tab or an iframe somedtimes.
Window object has properties like browser history, location and the device's screen etc.  In case of multi 
tab browser, a window object represents a single tab, but some of its properties like innerheight, innerwidth 
and methods like resize TO() will affect the whole browser window.

DOCUMENT OBJECT MODEL:
 
            When a web page is loaded, the browser creates a Document object model of the page.  The 
document object represents the whole html document as a tree of objects (HTML, HEAD, BODY,and other 
HTML tags).  It is the root element that represents the html docutment.

WINDOWS VS DOCUMENT: 

WINDOW OBJECT: It is the top most object and outermost element of the object.

DOCUMENT OBJECT:

            Each HTML document that gets loaded into a window becomes a document object.  The document contains
the contents of the page.  Using document object, Javascript can modify, add and delete the HTML elements,
attribtes CSS styles in the page.

The window object represents a window/tab containing a DOM document object is property of window object     
that points to the DOM document loaded in that window.

You can access a document object either using window.document property or using document object directly as 
window is global object.  In the below example title is the property of document object.

The window object represents a wondow/tab containing a DOM document where as document object is property 
of window object that points to the DOM document loaded in that window.

You can access a document object either using wondow.document property or using document object directly as 
window is global object.  In the below example title is the property of document object.

The other major difference is that both window object and document object have properties and methods.  
Few methods names are same in both objects but with different behavior.   In the below example 
window.open() a new tab or window and document.open() creates a blank documnt within the window.

SCREEN:

             Screen is the window property that holds information of browser screen. It refers to 
screen object associated with that window object used to display screen widht, height, colourdepth,pixeldepth etc.

Similar to document screen can be accessed either by window.screen or screen object directly.screen object doesn't have any methods as in window and document objects.